
Page
1
of 8
BIT 4484
Project Management
Spring 2026
Project Guidelines Ver 4
Team Projects:
The purpose of the team project is to use a structured approach to project management in a team
setting to manage a project which delivers a product or service. We are very fortunate to be able
to have such a great college, business school, department and local community. I am hopeful that
many of our projects will engage and give back to these communities or to your families. I believe
strongly in the University’s motto of Ut Prosim and I want our projects to serve in this respect.
Examples include developing and executing a fundraising event for a need worthy cause,
developing an outreach project for a local school, creating a business plan for a potential business,
updating a company’s Web site, helping launch a new business venture, preparing a research report
for an organization, refurbishing the landscaping or playground for a local school/daycare, helping
a company develop a data analytics program, developing a robust personal management
application, etc. Each team member should plan to spend between 20-30 hours on the team
project. You must have the sponsor provide confirmation of their willingness to work with
you and make sure that they know what is expected of them. The sponsor must be willing to
meet with you several times and provide feedback at least 3 times during the term, including
a final assessment. The sponsor feedback will be very important for your grade.
Potential Areas of Impact (a few areas that we may be able to help): hunger, poverty, adolescent
development, animal welfare, cancer research, drugs and alcohol abuse, depression/mental illness,
cyber bullying, elderly issues, disaster relief, domestic abuse, homelessness, refugee
issues/challenges, etc.
Partial List of Previous Partners/Sponsors: Carillion Children’s Hospital, Micah’s Backpack,
Women’s Resource Center, Mountain View Humane, Interfaith Food Pantry, Giving Tree Food
Pantry, Mont. Co Animal Care and Adoption Center, No Hokie Left Behind, Be Safe Blacksburg,
VT Rec Sports Department, several local schools (elementary and high), VT Ticket Office, VT
Athletic Department, Feeding America SWVA, Active Minds, Compassionate Care Fund, Wigs
for Kids, Adopt a Senior Program, Blacksburg Rec Department, Blacksburg Refugee Partnership,
Heritage Hall Nursing Home, Raft Crisis Management, Habitat for Humanity, etc.
Types of Previous Fundraising Projects: Capella Concert, NCAA Challenge, Bowling
Tournament and raffle, 5K run, Video Game Tournament, Bake Sale, percentage nights, food
drives, book collections, Corn hole tournament, silent auctions, information sessions, etc.
Other Previous Project Ideas: Food drives, book drives, website development, social media
campaigns, resume workshops, playground refurbishment, virtual reading program development,
anti-bullying campaign, emotional support video development, etc.
Lots of project information, including document templates and project examples with websites can
be found here: Project Management
Each term, I have several great sponsors who reach out to me wanting to work with our teams. These tend
to be great opportunities because these sponsors know what to expect and are able to help me foster a
great experience and learning environment. I have listed a subset of those that are potentially available for
this semester below, and hope that many of our teams find passion in working with these great
organizations:
Great Choices:
1. Prices Fork Elementary School (child development/mental health – Adolescent Mental Health -
De-escalation room (2 spots available I think) – Team 2 – team 10
2. Carilion Children’s Hospital (Children’s Welfare)
3. Radford Animal Shelter (Animal Welfare) – Team 1 claimed
4. Mountain View Pet Clinic (animal welfare – food and spay/neuter services) – team 5 claimed
5. Blacksburg High School – DECA (Adolescent Development) – claimed
6. Roanoke Valley SPCA (Animal Welfare) – team 19
7. Laundry of Love (poverty) – team 16
8. Micah’s Backpack – helps feed hungry children (food insecurity for children) - claimed
9. Warm Hearth Retirement Community (elderly assistance) – Team 7 claimed
10. Coffeeholics (small business assistance) - claimed
11. Coffee Lab (small business help) – Team 3 Claimed
12. Blacksburg Interfaith Food Pantry (food insecurity) – team 4 claimed
13. Blacksburg Refugee Project (refugee support) – team 13
Other possible options:
14. Agape Food Pantry (food insecurity
15. Women’s Resource Center of the NRV – (Domestic Violence) – team 18
16. VT Rescue Squad
17. Children’s Advocacy Center (child welfare)
18. VT YMCA (poverty/food insecurity)
19. Heritage Hall Nursing Home
20. Sleep in Heavenly Peace (helping give each child a nice place to sleep)
21. Feeding America SWVA (food insecurity)
22. RAFT Crisis Hotline
23. Hokie Wellness Program
24. Work with the VT Rec Sports Program
25. The Lyric Theatre
26. VT & Blacksburg Police Department
27. Harding Avenue Elementary School
28. Belle Heth Elementary School
29. Hope to Walk – fundraising, mobile clinic, adopt a child program, …
Interested in helping battle food insecurity? Check out
Fall24_NRV_FoodAssistance_Directory_web.pdf
As a key component of every project, each group will need to create a Web Site for their project.
This website should be very well organized and represent a resource that could be used by any of
your stakeholders or outside entities that might want to learn more about your project. One method
is using Google, but there are others such as WIX, WordPress, etc. and I do not truthfully care how
you develop the website. Regardless of which method you choose, you should store all of your
current project documents on the web site and they should be well organized and accessible by
any visitor. (make sure to leave the default setting as public viewing access so that anyone visiting
the site has access to all of the documents). In addition, your website should always be kept up
to date with your latest documents.
Project Templates can be found at – Project Management
Team Progress Reports:
• For a given progress report or final presentation, hard copies of all of the relevant project
information must be delivered to me and must be available online (on your Website) by the
identified date and time. This includes all of the documents detailed below as well as any of the
additional tools that you have chosen to utilize. We will provide all versions of a given document
on the website in a well-organized and easy to navigate format.
• Your Team’s Website must ALWAYS be up to date providing access to all of the current
project documents!
In general, you should have the initiating tasks done for the first progress report and the planning tasks and
some of the executing tasks done for the second progress report and the project complete for the final. Below
are instructions for what is needed for progress reports:
Idea Delivery: Team Project Idea and Project Manager Due by 11pm 1/29 (upload via Canvas assignment
- use the team project idea form provided). I will provide a timely response letting you know if your
proposal is approved. Please do not contact the sponsor until your idea is approved.
Sponsor Confirmation: Provide me with your sponsor confirmation and contact information (email)
clearly identifying your team number and team name by 11pm 2/4. (an email to you from the sponsor will
suffice, they do not need to contact me directly).
Progress Report 1: Presentation Day – February 10th
Assume that you are giving a formal progress report to senior managers. This will be a short
presentation (3-4 minutes) intended to give a high-level introduction to your project. I will
provide a PowerPoint Template on our platform (Project Management). Everyone does not need
to speak during this presentation. It should include:
• a brief introduction of your project and your team, emphasizing why you are doing the project,
what your main deliverables will be, identified challenges and how you will measure success.
• a brief discussion of your:
• stakeholder register/list (using template from Canvas Module)
• team contract (using template from Canvas Module).
You need to provide me a copy of all of these documents (Introduction, Stakeholder Register and
Team Contract) prior to class on 2/10 (upload PDF doc via Canvas assignment). Also, you
need to send me a copy of your PowerPoint file by 11pm the night before your presentation
(include your team number in your file name in the format: Team X – team name). Attach your
PowerPoint file to an email and send to jdeane1@vt.edu (one per team). Please reference your
team number in the subject line of the email.
Website: Your team’s website must be developed, active, up to date, and you need to provide
me the URL by 11pm on Sunday, February 15th. I will create a canvas assignment for this
delivery.
Progress Report 2: Presentation Days – March26th, March 31st & April 2nd
Assume that you are giving a formal progress report to senior managers. You will present and
review highlights of the following information:
• a progress report (using the template called performance report/update from Project
Management)
• a detailed communication plan (team and stakeholders – using template)
• a project charter (using template), signed by all stakeholders, including your sponsor (an email
confirmation is okay in place of a signature for your sponsor)
• a scope statement (using template. Note: Describe each product-oriented deliverable using at
least two complete sentences if this is applicable)
• a draft schedule (using the template. I will be most interested in what you have under
Executing and your total estimated hours by person. I know this is a rough estimate but do the
best you can for now. a comparison and explanation of estimated versus actual hours spent to
date.
• a summary of communications so far with each stakeholder (just a list, no template). This is
just a list of your correspondence. I do not need all of the details, just a list providing the
stakeholder, date and format (email, meeting, phone call, etc.) for each communication.
• meeting agendas and minutes for each of your meetings (template provided).
• a probability/impact matrix (template provided), including at least 5 potential risks for your
project. For at least three of them (most important ones), describe your mitigation and
contingency strategies for managing them.
Be sure all of your documents and your presentation are on your team’s website, and also
provide me with a copy of each of these documents. These are due before class on MARCH
26TH (upload ONE PDF doc that includes all of the documents via Canvas assignment). In
addition, please submit your team’s PowerPoint file by 11pm the night before your
presentation as an email attachment to Jdeane1@vt.edu (include your team number in
your file name in the format: Team X – team name). This should be an attachment, not a link
to a google doc.
Final Project Notebooks and Presentations: Presentation Days – May 5th and May 9th
By the last day of class (Due before class starts May 5th), each team will submit a project
notebook as detailed below. Once again please upload one printable PDF with all of the files
via the associated Canvas assignment. In addition, please submit your team’s PowerPoint file
by 11pm the night before your presentation as an email attachment to jdeane1@vt.edu
(include your team number in your file name in the format: Team X – team name). The
presentation and info in the notebook should all be available on the website as well. Note: Each
team member must give part of the final presentation. Organize the final notebook/PDF as
follows:
• Cover page and detailed table of contents. List the project name, team members, location of
the website, and date on the cover page of the notebook. Be sure to number all pages (by hand
is fine), which should match the table of contents. Please include tabs or dividers between
major sections of the notebook. Put the project report first, followed by your final presentation,
then product-related documents, then project management documents, then sponsor
communication information.
• A double-spaced 3-4-page project report. Address the following questions in your report: How
many hours were devoted to the project? If applicable, how much (money, food, supplies, etc.)
did you collect for your sponsor? What did your team produce? Was the project a success or
not, and what was your criteria for determining success? (Remember that should be defined
in your project charter early in the project). What project management tools/documents did
you use, and did they help? How close was your draft schedule and estimate of hours to the
actual schedule and actual hours worked on the project? What went right on the project? What
went wrong? What did your team learn by working on this project? What would you do
differently if you started this project over? How did you select the project manager? Did he/she
enjoy leading your team? Would he/she like to be a project manager in the future? Did you
work well as a team? Discuss the answers to these questions in your final project
presentation and show/summarize the main products produced. If your project involves
some type of event, show pictures/videos of the event.
• Copies of all of the product-related documents your team produced. For example, if you
created a business plan, include that. If you developed a website, include copies of the main
pages. If you held an event, include pictures of the event, promotional materials created, etc.
If you developed an application, include screenshots, user manual, etc.
• Hard copies of the final charter, scope statement, meeting minutes, communication plan,
lessons learned, etc., and any other project management-related documents/tools that you
created/used, incorporating any feedback from me and/or your sponsor. (only the latest version
of each)
• An updated summary of communications with each stakeholder. This is just a list of your
correspondence. I do not need all of the details, just a list providing the stakeholder, date and
format (email, meeting, phone call, etc.) for each communication.
• A write-up of your lessons learned. Please make sure to provide insights as to what your team
did well and what you would do differently if you did this project over. Insights related to
dealing with your specific sponsor or doing the type of project that you chose will be very
beneficial to future teams.
Part of the grade for the team project will be based on the team’s final presentation and progress
reports, and part of the grade will be based on the quality of the project and the associated
website/notebook. In addition, and most importantly, your team will be judged on how well
you manage the project! Let’s work hard to learn the important project management principles
while giving back to our communities.
Date – Version – Changes
Version 2 – 1/23/2026 – Fixed mistake on date for Pr I PDF submission and added Coffee Lab.
Changes to 2/10.
Version 3 – Updated due dates for Idea delivery (1/27 to 1/29) and sponsor confirmation (2/1to
2/4) as a result of weather related class cancellation.
Version 4 – 2/11 – Removed reference to Canvas upload for PowerPoint file for Progress I.
Removed references to “hard copy” deliverables for each progress report since we are now focused
on delivering a PDF that includes all necessary files via Canvas. No hard copies needed. Updated
a few of the requirements for Progress II and the Final Notebook.
